feat(rn): Add new Xcode scripts to RN Manual Setup (#8409)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/manual-setup.mdx

If you can’t (or prefer not to) run the [automatic setup](/platforms/react-native), use the instructions below to configure your application.

## Install SDK Package

Install the `@sentry/react-native` package:

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/react-native
```

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install --save @sentry/react-native

> ```

Reviewer: I believe the convention is to have npm before yarn - can you swap these?

Reviewer: I'd give you a suggested edit, but Github doesn't do well with code blocks in suggested edits :/

## iOS

> For iOS, we wrap the React Native bundle process to automatically upload source maps to Sentry. We also add new Xcode Build Phase to upload debug symbols to make sure that you get readable stack traces for your native crashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For iOS, the Sentry SDK wraps the React Native bundle process to upload source maps automatically. The SDK also adds a new Xcode Build Phase to upload debug symbols to ensure you get readable stack traces for your native crashes.
```

> ### Add sentry.properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add `sentry.properties`
```

It's weird, but our docs convention is to monospace file names like this

Add a `sentry.properties` file to your `ios` directory.

```properties {filename: ios/sentry.properties}
defaults.url=https://sentry.io/
defaults.org=___ORG_SLUG___
defaults.project=___PROJECT_SLUG___
auth.token=___ORG_AUTH_TOKEN___
```

> ### Add auto source maps upload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure Automatic Source Maps Upload
```

To this:

```bash {filename:Bundle React Native code and images}
set -e

WITH_ENVIRONMENT="../node_modules/react-native/scripts/xcode/with-environment.sh"
REACT_NATIVE_XCODE="../node_modules/react-native/scripts/react-native-xcode.sh"
SENTRY_XCODE="../node_modules/@sentry/react-native/scripts/sentry-xcode.sh"
BUNDLE_REACT_NATIVE="/bin/sh $SENTRY_XCODE $REACT_NATIVE_XCODE"

# RN 0.69+
/bin/sh -c "$WITH_ENVIRONMENT \"$BUNDLE_REACT_NATIVE\""

# RN 0.46 – 0.68
# /bin/sh -c "$BUNDLE_REACT_NATIVE"
```

> To cahnge the default behavior, you can pass the following environment variables in `.xcode.env` or in the Build Phase script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the default behavior, pass the following environment variables in `.xcode.env` or in the Build Phase script:
```

```bash {filename:.xcode.env}
export SENTRY_PROPERTIES=path/to/sentry.properties
export SENTRY_DISABLE_AUTO_UPLOAD=true # Temporarily disable source map upload

export AUTO_RELEASE=true # Automatically detect release from Xcode project
export SENTRY_CLI_EXECUTABLE="paht/to/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli"
export SENTRY_CLI_EXTRA_ARGS="--extra --flags" # Extra arguments for sentry-cli in all build phases
export SENTRY_CLI_RN_XCODE_EXTRA_ARGS="--extra --flags"

export SOURCE_MAP_PATH="path/to/source-maps" # From where collect-modules should read modules
export SENTRY_COLLECT_MODULES="path/to/collect-modules.sh"
export MODULES_PATHS="../node_modules,../my-custom-module"
```

By default, uploading of source maps for debug simulator builds is disabled for speed reasons. If you want to generate source maps for debug builds, you can pass `--allow-fetch` as a parameter to `SENTRY_CLI_RN_XCODE_EXTRA_ARGS` in the above mentioned script.

> ### Add auto debug symbols upload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure Automatic Debug Symbols Upload
```

To upload debug symbols to Sentry, create a new Run Script build phase using the following script:

```bash {filename:Upload Debug Symbols to Sentry}
export SENTRY_PROPERTIES=sentry.properties

[[ $SENTRY_INCLUDE_NATIVE_SOURCES == "true" ]] && INCLUDE_SOURCES_FLAG="--include-sources" || INCLUDE_SOURCES_FLAG=""
SENTRY_CLI="../node_modules/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli"
$SENTRY_CLI debug-files upload "$INCLUDE_SOURCES_FLAG" "$DWARF_DSYM_FOLDER_PATH"
```

> To cahnge the default behavior, you can pass the following environment variables in `.xcode.env` or in the Build Phase script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the default behavior, you can pass the following environment variables in `.xcode.env` or in the Build Phase script:
```

```bash {filename:.xcode.env}
export SENTRY_PROPERTIES=path/to/sentry.properties
export SENTRY_DISABLE_AUTO_UPLOAD=true # Temporarily disable debug symbols upload

export SENTRY_INCLUDE_NATIVE_SOURCES=true # Upload native iOS sources
export SENTRY_CLI_EXECUTABLE="paht/to/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli"
export SENTRY_CLI_EXTRA_ARGS="--extra --flags" # Extra arguments for sentry-cli in all build phases
export SENTRY_CLI_DEBUG_FILES_UPLOAD_EXTRA_ARGS="--extra --flags"
```

> For more information about what options to use in `SENTRY_CLI_DEBUG_FILES_UPLOAD_EXTRA_ARGS` visit [Sentry CLI Apple Debug Symbols](/platforms/apple/dsym/#sentry-cli) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about what options to use in `SENTRY_CLI_DEBUG_FILES_UPLOAD_EXTRA_ARGS` visit the [Sentry CLI Apple Debug Symbols](/platforms/apple/dsym/#sentry-cli) documentation.
```

### Linking the Native Library via CocoaPods

> To link the Native library via CocoaPods, link to the Native module in your Podfile. In React Native versions 0.60 and above, the podspec should be automatically linked, if that's not the case, you can link to the native module manually by adding the `RNSentry.podspec` to your Podfile. See below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To link the native library via CocoaPods, link to the native module in your Podfile. In React Native versions 0.60 and above, the podspec should be automatically linked. If isn't, you can link to the native module manually by adding the `RNSentry.podspec` to your Podfile as follows:
```

> ```rb

Reviewer: I think "rb" isn't recognized by our syntax highlighter, but "ruby" should be

```suggestion
```ruby
```

pod 'RNSentry', :path => '../node_modules/@sentry/react-native/RNSentry.podspec'
```

### Using node with nvm or Volta

If you are using nvm or Volta, Xcode has trouble locating the default node binary, which can look similar to the [troubleshooting example](/platforms/react-native/troubleshooting/#using-node-with-nvm-or-volta).

## Android

For Android, we hook into Gradle for the source map build process. When you run `npx @sentry/wizard@latest -i reactNative`, the Gradle files are automatically updated. If you can't or don't want to do that, you can follow the steps below to update the files.

> ### Add sentry.properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add `sentry.properties`
```
